Add an explainer for subresource signed exchanges (#542)
WICG/webpackage: explainers/signed-exchange-alternate-link-explainer.md

# Signed Exchange alternate link
## Introduction

> We want to extend the usage of the existing [rel=alternate](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/links.html#rel-alternate) link header for signed exchange. Using this link header, the content publishers can declare that the resource is available in signed exchange format. This can be used both by the crawlers of aggregator sites  (SNS, News site, search engine..) and by the UAs. The crawlers can cache and serve the signed exchange of the content in their own server. The UAs can provide the users with a way to save the page in signe exchange format. And also signed exchange alternate links can be used to recursively prefetch appropriate subresource signed exchanges while prefetching the main resource signed exchange.

Author: done

## Use Cases

> ### Signed Exchange discovery of main resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Discovery of a signed exchange for the main resource
```

However, I'm not sure this use needs to be in an explainer at all. The "Otherwise" branch in https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/links.html#rel-alternate already says that "The keyword creates a hyperlink referencing an alternate representation of the current document. The nature of the referenced document is given by the hreflang, and type attributes." There's nothing new in saying that a signed exchange can be an alternate representation of a document. So maybe delete this whole sub-section.

> 1. Content publishers can declare the URL of signed exchange format of the content using an alternate link HTTP header or using an alternate link HTML element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A publisher can offer a signed exchange version of a resource using either a `Link` header on that resource of a `<link rel="alternate">` element within the resource.
```

> 1. Content publishers can declare the URL of signed exchange format of the content using an alternate link HTTP header or using an alternate link HTML element.

Reviewer: I don't think the paragraphs in this section are really an ordered list.

```suggestion
Content publishers can declare the URL of signed exchange format of the content using an alternate link HTTP header or using an alternate link HTML element.
```

   - Example of signed exchange alternate link HTTP header in the HTTP response headers of the main resource of the content (https://publisher.example/article.html):
      ```
      Link: <https://sxg.publisher.example/article.html.sxg>;
              rel="alternate";
              type="application/signed-exchange;v=b3";

>               anchor="https://publisher.example/article.html"

Reviewer: Omit an `anchor` parameter if it's the same URL as the resource it appears in.
```suggestion
```

      ```
   - Example of signed exchange alternate link HTML element in the main resource of the content (https://publisher.example/article.html):
      ```
      <link href="https://sxg.publisher.example/article.html.sxg"
            rel="alternate"
            type="application/signed-exchange;v=b3"

>             anchor="https://publisher.example/article.html">

Reviewer: Also omit this one.
```suggestion
            >
```

      ```
1. This signed exchange alternate link of main resource can be used both by the crawlers and the UAs.
   - When the crawlers detects the signed exchange alternate link, the crawlers can fetch the signed exchange.  And when a user is browsing the aggregator site (https://feed.example) and it has a link to the article, the signed exchange can be used for [privacy-preserving prefetching](https://wicg.github.io/webpackage/draft-yasskin-webpackage-use-cases.html#private-prefetch) using a prefetch `<link>` element and `<a>` link to the signed exchange .
      ```
      <link href="https://feed.example/article.html.sxg"
            rel="prefetch">
      <a href="https://feed.example/article.html.sxg">feed.example</a>
      ```
   - While the user of the UA is browsing an article (article.html), and if there is a signed exchange alternate link, the UA can provide the user with a way to save the page in signe exchange format. The saved file can be used to share with other users.

### Recursive subresource signed exchange prefetch

> 1. A crawler of an aggregator site fetches an article (https://publisher.example/article.html).

Reviewer: I don't think crawlers are likely to respect subresource signed exchanges. They can just go to the original host, which can offer the signed exchange as a same-document alternative. So remove from here down to "The aggregator site will serve"?

            rel="alternate";
            type="application/signed-exchange;v=b3";
            anchor="https://publisher.example/article.html"
    ```
1. The crawler fetches and verifies the signed exchange (article.html.sxg).

   1. The response from the server has an alternate link of subresource signed exchange:
      ```
      Link: <https://sxg.publisher.example/lib.js.sxg>;
              rel="alternate";
              type="application/signed-exchange;v=b3";
              anchor="https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js"
      ```
   1. And the inner response of the main resource signed exchange (article.html.sxg) has a preload header and an [allowed-alt-sxg header](./signed-exchange-subresource-subtitution-explainer.md):
      ```
      Link: <https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js>;
              rel="preload";
              as="script"
      Link: <https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js>;
              rel="allowed-alt-sxg";
              header-integrity="sha256-XXXXXX"
      ```
1. The crawler fetches and verifies the subresource signed exchange (lib.js.sxg).
1. The aggregator site will serve the signed exchanges (article.html.sxg and lib.js.sxg) from their own server.

> 1. While a user is browsing the aggregator site (https://feed.example), a prefetch link element is inserted because the use is likely to want to read the article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While a user is browsing an aggregator site (https://feed.example), the aggregator guesses that the user is likely to want to read a particular article (https://publisher.example/article.html) and so inserts a prefetch link pointing to a signed exchange version of that article.
```

   ```
   <link rel="prefetch" href="https://feed.example/sxg.publisher.example/article.html.sxg">
   ```

> 1. The UA prefetches the signed exchange (article.html.sxg).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the UA prefetches the signed exchange (article.html.sxg), the aggregator server includes a declaration that one of `article.html`'s subresources (https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js) is also available from the same aggregator.
```

   1. The response from the server has an alternate link of subresource signed exchange:
      ```
      Link: <https://feed.example/sxg.publisher.example/lib.js.sxg>;
              rel="alternate";
              type="application/signed-exchange;v=b3";
              anchor="https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js"
      ```

>    1. And the inner response of the main resource signed exchange (article.html.sxg) has a preload header and an allowed-alt-sxg header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent an attacker from loading an incompatible version of the subresource, the resource _inside_ the signed exchange has to identify the exact version of the replacement signed exchange using a `Link: ... rel="allowed-alt-sxg"` with the hash of the signed headers (which themselves include a hash of the content).

To prevent a tracker from conveying a user ID in their choice of which subresources to prefetch, the inner resource has to preload the same subresources that the aggregator prefetches.
```

      ```
      Link: <https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js>;
              rel="preload";
              as="script"
      Link: <https://cdn.publisher.example/lib.js>;
              rel="allowed-alt-sxg";
              header-integrity="sha256-XXXXXX"
      ```
1. The UA recursively prefetches lib.js.sxg.

> 1. If the user clicks a link the article’s signed exchange, both the main resource of the article and the script are loaded from the prefetched signed exchanges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user navigates to the expected article, both the main resource of the article and the script subresource are loaded from the prefetched signed exchanges.
```

## Proposal

> While processing preload link HTTP headers in prefetched main resource signed exchange’s inner response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While prefetching an HTML resource:
```

Then write an explicit loop that checks if every preload has a matching and allowed prefetch before deciding to use all of the prefetches.

Author: Done

1. Check whether matching “allowed-alt-sxg” link HTTP header in the inner response exists or not. (Note that if the allowed-alt-sxg link HTTP header has variants and variant-key attributes, the UA must execute the algorithm written in [HTTP Representation Variants](https://httpwg.org/http-extensions/draft-ietf-httpbis-variants.html) spec to find the matching header.)
1. If exists, check whether matching “alternate” link HTTP header in the outer response exists or not.
1. If exists, prefetches the matching signed exchange instead of prefetching the original resource URL.
1. The prefetched signed exchange will be stored to the SignedExchangeCache of the Document. And it will be passed to the next Document and used while processing the preload link header. This behavior is written in [Signed Exchange subresource substitution explainer](./signed-exchange-subresource-subtitution-explainer.md).

> ## Detailed design discussion

Reviewer: Probably just remove this sub-header.

          variant-key-05="image/jpeg";
          anchor="https://publisher.example/image";
    Link: <https://feed.example/publisher.example/image_webp.sxg>;
          rel="alternate";
          type="application/signed-exchange;v=b3";
          variants-05="accept;image/jpeg;image/webp";
          variant-key-05="image/webp";
          anchor="https://publisher.example/image";
    ```
- In **inner** response header of article.html.sxg:
    ```
    Link: <https://publisher.example/image>;
          rel="allowed-alt-sxg";
          variants-05="accept;image/jpeg;image/webp";
          variant-key-05="image/jpeg";
          header-integrity="sha256-AAA"
    Link: <https://publisher.example/image>;
          rel="allowed-alt-sxg";
          variants-05="accept;image/jpeg;image/webp";
          variant-key-05="image/webp";
          header-integrity="sha256-BBB"
    Link: <https://publisher.example/image>; rel=preload; as=image;
    ```
If a UA supports WebP, the UA should prefetch **image_webp.sxg** which content is WebP format. Otherwise the UA should prefetch **image_jpeg.sxg** which content is JPEG format.

## Security and Privacy Considerations

> The UA must fetch the alternate signed exchange subresource (lib.js.sxg) even if there is the original subresource (lib.js) in the HTTPCache. Otherwise it leaks the state of publisher’s site to the distributor of the signed exchange.

Reviewer: Also, to prevent tracking (user ID transfer), if the aggregator failed to prefetch a subresource that the main resource preloads, the UA must drop all of the subresource prefetches. If the aggregator prefetches a superset of the preloaded subresources, the UA must drop the ones that weren't preloaded.

Author: Done
